- [Narrator] Static code analyzers are a great way
to identify quality issues within our code.
So in this lesson, we're going to integrate
the FindBugs Maven plugin into our pipeline as a job.
If you're not familiar with FindBugs,
it's a code analyzer for Java that will identify
quality issues within your code.
Let's take a quick look at our pom.xml file.
Here you'll see that I have included
the FindBugs Maven plugin,
so that will be part of our Maven build,
and we can reference that plugin and run its goals
as part of our pipeline in GitLab CI.
So let's go ahead and put that in place
by modifying our gitlab-ci.yml file.
Within this file, we're going to go ahead and
add another job that we'll call quality.
Within that job we're going to add a script
and that script will use Maven to kick off
the FindBugs Plugins check goal.
This is basically going to go check our code
to see if there's any code defects,
based upon the roles in FindBugs.
The next thing we're going to do is establish a
quality report so when the FindBugs plugin
runs its analysis of our code, it's going to build
an artifact that we can then leverage.
So what we'll do is add a script
and this script will use the Maven site goal
and that's going to build an artifact
that we can make available within GitLab.
So we just need to provide the path to that artifact
and in this case, I'm just going to include
the entire site directory, and that's where we're
going to find the FindBugs report on our code.
So let's go ahead and write this file.
At this point we can perform a commit
we'll say adding FindBugs
and now we can push that commit up to the central repository
provide our credentials, there it goes,
now let's get over to GitLab CI
and we can check out our pipeline,
there we see it just entered.
Dive into that pipeline,
and watch our different jobs run.
We can see the build ran, the test ran,
now the quality job is running
and in a minute we'll have the quality report.
Okay, so the jobs have finished,
but it looks like we have a quality problem.
Let's dive into the quality job to see what happened.
There we can see that FindBugs actually failed our build
because it found a bug.
We can navigate into the quality report
to see what the problem was.
So let's download the artifact,
and we can open it,
and if we take a look within the target directory,
in the site, you'll see the FindBugs.html file
and that is our report.
So if we take a look, now we don't have the styling,
but you can notice that in our code we had
a Dead store to result2,
so that's one of our variables.
At this point, it would be up to our team members
to resolve this quality issue detected by FindBugs.
We're not going to go into that,
because we just wanted to run our static code analysis,
but you can see how with GitLab's pipelines,
and continuous integration features,
we can automate these quality assurance checks
that will be ran consistently.
It's going to ensure the integrity of the product
we're putting out there, and it's automated,
so it happens every time without us lifting a finger.